# The impact of alcohol on academic performance

The statistical analysis of the data below is an attempt to find the factors that most influence students to drink alcohol and to examine the impact of this activity on academic results.

# CONCLUSIONS.

Based on the analysis performed, we discovered that **there is a correlation between students' alcohol consumption and their academic performance**.

We can conclude that students who drink very little during the week perform better than students with other levels of drinking. However, due to the overlap of the error bars, we have no significant evidence to conclude any difference between the other groups. What's more, we conclude that students who aim for higher education tend to drink less on weekends than students who do not. We also found that more students respond to the very high and high drinking groups on weekends than on weekdays. However, in the case of family situation, we had no significant evidence to suggest a relationship between students' alcohol consumption and their parents' living status.

Overall, we found some contradictions between our study and the hypotheses we assumed at the beginning of our analysis. The main reason may be [small sample size]{.underline}. Therefore, we may not be able to generalize our finding to the entire Portuguese population. In addition, many of the variables are categorical variables, which limits us to examining a linear or non-linear relationship between the variables. Because the data were self-reported, people may not answer questions truthfully. Finally, politics and culture in Portugal are different than in other countries. For example, in Portugal, the minimum age to drink is 16.
In future research on the relationship between high school students' alcohol consumption and their family situation and academic performance, we want more observations, and instead of categorical data, we want more numerical data. As we said above, having more numerical variables will allow us to analyze the trend of students' academic performance and its relationship with students' alcohol consumption. It will also refine our study to collect data on how much alcohol students' parents drink, as well as a dummy variable asking if you drink with your parents. Family alcohol background will certainly influence students' attitudes toward alcohol and shape their alcohol-buying behavior, as we want to further investigate how family influences students' alcohol consumption.

Our work can be useful to families and schools because they can use our results as guidelines to prevent teenage drinking. Based on our results, they can encourage teenagers to pursue higher education and make it an intrinsic motivation for children to drink less. Also, students themselves should be aware of the impact of alcohol consumption on academic performance. If they are aware of this, they may be less likely to become underage drinkers. Some other audiences that may be interested in our research are the government's education department and perhaps some educational institutions. The result may help determine the potential reason for underage drinking and try to develop policies to prevent it.
